 Triaxial mechanical testing of dog colon segments
Contributors: 
Bhavesh Patel
,
Yanmin Wang
,
Ghassan Kassab
,
Hans Gregersen
Description: Measurement data related to the mechanical testing of dog colon samples under triaxial (inflation, extension, torsion) loading.
Viewing version: 3.0
DOI: 10.26275/d41u-sokg
July 20, 2023
107 Files
7.1 MB
Latest version: 3.0
July 20, 2023
View other versions
Usage Rights: CC-BY-4.0
Downloads: 23
Abstract About Cite Files Gallery References Versions

Study Purpose: The goal of the study was to conduct ex vivo mechanical testing of dog colon samples for understanding the mechanical behavior of the tissue.

Data Collection: Data was collected by testing tubular dog colon samples on our custom-built triaxial testing machines. It consists of simultaneous measurements of stretch, axial force, pressure, diameters (at three locations along the length of the tissue), twist, and torque.

Primary Conclusion: Results provided the first passive loading-deformation relations for the dog colon under simultaneous triaxial loading.

Curator's Notes

Experimental Design: Dogs, after being anesthetized, had the Fecobionics device transanally inserted into the rectum, then inflated at 20 ml, and then extracted manually or defecated naturally. The dogs were divided into three groups: The acute group with Fecobionics device (n=3) in which the animals were euthanized immediately after the removal of the device, and the chronic group with Fecobionics device (n=5) in which the animals were terminated after 2 weeks and a control chronic group (n=2). Colon samples were collected after the animals were euthanized and subject to mechanical testing (inflation, extension, torsion). Tissues from animals from a control group (n=2) were included as well in the study.

Completeness: This dataset is a part of the larger study: Safety Study of Wireless Fecobionics Device.

Subjects & Samples: Male (n=10) Mongrel dogs weighing about 25kg, age 6-9 months were used in the study.

Primary vs derivative data: Data in the primary folder is divided by the subject identification ID. Each subject folder contains a subfolder with detailed tabular measurement data related to the mechanical testing of dog colon samples under triaxial (inflation, extension, torsion) loading. The derivative folder contains files describing column headers .csv for corresponding data files and information in header files .docx for data visualization purposes.
Metadata

Experimental Design:
Protocol Links:
https://doi.org/10.17504/protocols.io.bp7qmrmw
Experimental Approach: Physiology

Subject Information:
Anatomical structure: Colon
Species: Dog
Sex: Male
Age range: Juvenile
Number of samples: 10 samples from 10 subjects



 About this dataset
Title: Triaxial mechanical testing of dog colon segments
First Published: May 15, 2021
Last Published: July 20, 2023
Contact Author:
Bhavesh Patel
bpatel@calmi2.org
Award(s): NIH OT2OD025308
Funding Program(s): SPARC
Associated project(s): Fecobionics device for mapping colonic and anorectal neuromuscular function
Institution(s): California Medical Innovations Institute
About this version
Version 3 Revision 0: Publication date: July 20, 2023 (Last updated: July 20, 2023)
Dataset DOI: https://doi.org/10.26275/d41u-sokg 
