 Fecobionics study in fecal incontinence (FI) subjects
Contributors: 
Yanmin Wang
,
Bhavesh Patel
,
Ghassan Kassab
,
Hans Gregersen
Description: We are developing a novel wireless device named Fecobionics for mapping colonic and anorectal neuromuscular function. The current dataset contains results from the Fecobionics test in the anorectal of human subjects with fecal incontinence.
Viewing version: 1.0
DOI: 10.26275/1phd-nw4a
May 26, 2023
49 Files
838.01 MB
Latest version: 1.0
May 26, 2023
View other versions
Usage Rights: CC-BY-4.0
Downloads: 5
Abstract About Cite Files Gallery Versions

Study Purpose: We are developing a novel wireless device named Fecobionics for mapping colonic and anorectal neuromuscular function. The purpose of this study is to test the device in normal subjects and subjects with fecal incontinence to compare anorectal functions in health and disease.

Data Collection: This dataset contains transmitted Fecobionics data from the study in subjects with fecal incontinence.

Primary Conclusion: Fecobionics successfully measures parameters (pressure, orientation, bending angle, cross-sectional area, etc.) during defecation.

Curator's Notes

Experimental Design: Briefly, the device was inserted into the participants' rectum, and several motions (cough, squeeze, straining) were made. If the device fell out before the completion of the test, it was re-inserted gently. Data was recorded in real-time. Each participant was tested up to 4 times on the following dates: The day before percutaneous nerve evaluation (PNE) (pre-PNE), one day after PNE (day 1), seven days after PNE (day 7), and thirty days after sacral nerve stimulation (SNS) treatment (day 30 post-SNS).

Completeness: This dataset is part of a larger study: "Fecobionics studies in human participants."

Subjects & Samples: Data from female (n=10) and male (n=3) human participants diagnosed with fecal incontinence were used in this study.

Primary vs derivative data: Primary data is organized in folders named by subject ID. Each file in the primary folder (CSV format) contains the Fecobionics data (orientations, pressures, diameters, bending angle, etc.) measured in participants. The file name contains the measurement state (PrePNE, PNE Day 1, PNE Day 7, SNS Day 30 (we refer to the protocol for more details).
Metadata

Experimental Design:
Protocol Links: n/a
Experimental Approach: Behavior, Process qualification

Subject Information:
Anatomical structure: Colon
Species: Human
Sex: Female, Male
Age range: n/a
Number of samples: n/a
Keywords:

anorectum, 

device, 

gi


 About this dataset
Title: Fecobionics study in fecal incontinence (FI) subjects
First Published: May 26, 2023
Last Published: May 26, 2023
Contact Author:
Bhavesh Patel
bpatel@calmi2.org
Award(s): NIH OT2OD028203
Funding Program(s): SPARC
Associated project(s): Neurophysiological mechanism in sacral neuromodulation in patients suffering from fecal incontinence
Institution(s): California Medical Innovations Institute
About this version
Version 1 Revision 0: Publication date: May 26, 2023 (Last updated: May 26, 2023)
Dataset DOI: https://doi.org/10.26275/1phd-nw4a 
